hello everybody my name is nine I'm the
black female engineer I provide y'all
with some Tech Career life content and
yo if you saw my catch up video posted
not too long ago you know that I have
switched teams if you didn't know that I
suggest you
run back a little bit go back over there
catch up with me I really just let you
in I'm just like yeah what has been
going on with me for the last few months
but yeah I have changed teams and so
let's let's talk about it
so I previously worked for DreamWorks I
was a software engineer under their
production engineering team under that
team I worked primarily with python and
JavaScript a lot of false Tech
development and all the works now
however I am a developer on an Xfinity
team both of these teams under Comcast
the company I work for who you know
writes my paychecks but yes that's why I
say different team that's why I'm not
saying I changed jobs but yes I moved
over to the Xfinity side of things where
my team focuses mostly on mobile
development now for those who don't know
Xfinity is part of the Comcast umbrella
and they primarily focus on consumer
cable internet and streaming services so
I like mentioned them on the streaming
side and it's been fun it's been fun
is this so early to tell kind of what
the next few months hold for me but no
I've really enjoyed it so far part of
what Xfinity does is provide video
content to you all and so with me being
on the mobile side of that I get to be a
part of a team that is very much focused
on how to deliver content movies shows
and whatnot and just a enjoyable Manner
and so my team Works a ton with UI and
ux designers developers Etc so what's UI
in the ux UI stands for user interface
and ux stands for user experience and so
those designers for any of y'all who are
thinking about doing that those
designers put together what their dream
experience would be for the user they
come together and they create drawings
which turn into mock-ups which turn into
prototypes and they really just get all
of that together so that they can go to
the engineering team and say look make
this make this make this make this and
engineers and designers and managers go
back and forth back and forth back and
forth trying to get to that beautiful
end product a lot of iteration happens
Lots like I just said back and forth and
just edits happen a ton a ton of time
it's not just the designers make the
designs and then peace out and go to a
next project it's weeks months years of
just that continuous feedback so I get
to be a part of the people who turns the
designers designs to life it's really
exciting because I get to see thoughts
and ideas and illustrations and Concepts
before anyone else can and that's really
exciting especially because what we're
building here the goal is for it to get
to you all someday so it's been really
exciting that part of things I started
here about
hi is it five five or six weeks ago and
since then I've been on the same project
I don't believe this project has been
announced to the world because I'm
pretty sure it's quite new to the team
and so I'm not going to divulge too much
information for those who don't know
Comcast because they also own NBC
Universal they own peacock peacock is
like Netflix and Hulu a place for people
to stream and view shows and whatnot and
so think of the app I'm working on
basically another app to deliver content
to awesome movies also TV shows and
whatnot just maybe in a different Manner
and so just like think of that being my
main project while I continue on talking
about what I do day by day and what tech
I use and all that because we're about
to get into all of that part so first
let's go into what my day-to-day looks
like my daily day doesn't look too
different than my day at dream words and
if you watch my day in the life from
Dreamworks you know that in the mornings
I had my stand up a stand-up is
basically a meeting where the team comes
together and says what they've been
working on what they worked on yesterday
what they plan to get done today and
call it a day it's typically like 15
minutes and so I start the day with my
daily stand-up and then kind of continue
on the day with maybe some pop-up
meetings here and there but by the
afternoon it's all coding and
development and debugging and that's
quite typical for an entry-level
developer like myself because like why
do I have to be in all these meetings
I'm not making decisions I'm simply
putting together what you told me to do
which I love doing to be honest that's a
conversation maybe for another day but
to be honest I like this pot of just
simply development is why I wanted to
become a software engineer I don't need
to make the decisions just tell me what
you want and I'll deliver it for you I
primarily use just Swift UI throughout
my day I use Swift UI because as
mentioned I work so closely with
designers and so the things I'm building
out they're not I did say that they will
one day be seen by you guys and they
will at least that's the Hope however my
role isn't to make them functionable
it's simply to put together these yeah
mock-ups and prototypes in a way that
now when you go onto your phone you can
see how it'll look and feel and function
because of the development me and other
members of the team have done however it
can't be put out into the world yet
because it hasn't been optimized to
handle large audiences like that's not
our job so yeah Swift UI is really where
I live right now I didn't know any Swift
UI before starting on this team a few
weeks ago and so if anyone is looking to
learn more about it I'll add a link like
I was gonna say some links but I think I
really only use like one true tutorial
in getting acquainted with the
technology with the framework and all
that and I really like this so if anyone
is looking to learn Swift UI or go into
UI ux I'm going to add the link to the
tutorial below and this role definitely
is phenomenal for anyone looking to be
in UI ux to be specifically like a US
engineer or a front-end developer or
also go into Mobile development this
role is phenomenal if you're all three
oh this role is the one for you and so
ways you can prepare for a role like
this one first off really kind of what I
recommend most of the time for anything
ah not anything but most things is
starting off with HTML and CSS just the
bare bones of putting content together
and styling it after HTML and CSS learn
either python or JavaScript it's
important because knowing basic
functions and Concepts taught with
python and JavaScript are very necessary
things like if statements for Loops
ternary operators things like that
they're very necessary because in Swift
UI when you want something to work only
for x amount of components or elements
or you wanted to iterate over x amount
of things you want to make sure you're
understanding the concept behind what
you're doing so I guess you can say
right now while I'm on this team I work
mostly as a ux engineer front-end
developer really there's no back end no
no back end because again we're not
trying to make it available to the
masses right now and so it's very
different from my job at DreamWorks
because at DreamWorks I helped put
together the authentication and security
measures and just making it available
and workable and functionable for larger
audiences and people to use at the same
time and all that so it's very very
different and because of that there's
also such a need for attention to detail
attention to detail is of utmost
importance here because
we're mostly focused on the visual it's
like okay what are the users going to
see how are they going to react to it
and so I was actually working on a
project just now where we got a lot of
feedback when we sent it out to other
managers and designers and some of the
feedback is hey this indent doesn't
match that indent because it's important
you need to make sure you are keeping
that super close I actually think shoot
did I send that up
I actually think I realized I forgot to
do that I will do it tomorrow I will do
it tomorrow if my boss is watching this
oh but no that was there were so many
other tickets I had to work on like I I
will get there I promise I'll get to it
but no so like making sure you're really
really looking at those things and
that's kind of what I like about the
visual parts of development like
you are you act if I wasn't a software
engineer I would have probably gone the
UI ux route I previously thought cyber
security till I found out what it really
was and I was like nah I think I would
have gone UI ux especially because there
is such a Focus right now on
accessibility and making sure that apps
and products and tools are widely
accessible for other members of society
that may not have the same abilities as
other members of society actually
speaking of tickets I've been working on
one of them was making sure to add
haptics on the different button clicks
so if you don't know what haptics are I
don't know what haptics were either so
like let me Define it for y'all a haptic
is basically you know when you oh okay
okay I think this is a good example but
I'm not positive you know when you're
scrolling on something and then you like
let's say you like an image or you want
to add it to like your favorites I think
Instagram has this but now I'm not sure
when you double click on Instagram if
you feel your phone like pulsate real
quick not like a vibrate nothing crazy
but just like a quick soft like
pulsation to acknowledge that and action
was done that's a haptic and it's really
great for accessibility members because
if you can't see clearly that a heart
was added or a check mark was done to
acknowledge that something was added to
your favorites bar that feeling that
like quick like pulsating feeling will
make it clear to you that okay my action
was successful and so that actually
literally is a thing I just learned how
to add yesterday onto different buttons
and icons and it's something I completed
today and I sent the ticket up and so
that was really exciting and fun for me
yeah you can you can see me gleaming it
was actually really really cool because
I I have a very deep uh interest for
accessibility measures and making sure
that apps and products are more widely
acceptable and so being able to be part
of like that and I'm going to be part of
it but do it and accomplish it was
extremely exciting for me let me know in
the comments what questions you have
because I'd love to keep talking about
this topic what I do and really just
going the nitty-gritty of what yeah
being a developer looks like and just
answer you all those questions and just
chat and so let me know I really do
enjoy my team I really love my manager
my co-workers and everyone's been very
kind especially yeah I'm a new on the
team so I really am like please be
patient with me guys and it was funny is
typically it's like no no we're patient
with you you need to be patient with
yourself and so that's been really um a
good experience so yeah let me know in
the comments below what questions you
have what thoughts you have what
comments like this this chat and yeah
thank you so much for joining me I'll be
sure to give you all an update in maybe
a couple months on how everything's
going and what projects I am working on
now so yeah thanks y'all